\chapter{Background}
\label{chapter: background}

\section{Edge Computing}
\label{sec: bg-edge}

\begin{figure*}[t]
\begin{minipage}[c]{2.5in}
\includegraphics[scale=0.45]{FIGS/fig-3tier-A.pdf}
\end{minipage}
\begin{minipage}[c]{2.7in}
\includegraphics[scale=0.25]{FIGS/fig-3tier-B-cropped.pdf}\\
\end{minipage}
\begin{minipage}[c]{1in}
\includegraphics[scale=0.45]{FIGS/fig-3tier-C.pdf}
\end{minipage}
\caption{\small Tiered Model of Computing}
\label{fig:3tier}
\end{figure*}

{\em Edge computing} is a nascent computing paradigm that has gained
considerable traction over the past few years. It champions the idea of placing
substantial compute and storage resources at the edge of the Internet, in close
proximity to mobile devices or sensors.  Terms such as
``cloudlets''~\cite{Satya2009}, ``micro data centers (MDCs)''~\cite{Greene2012},
``fog''~\cite{Bonomi2012}, and ``mobile edge computing (MEC)''~\cite{Brown2013}
are used to refer to these small, edge-located computing nodes.  We use these
terms interchangably in the rest of this thesis. Edge computing is motivated by
its potential to improve latency, bandwidth, and scalability over a cloud-only
model.  More practically, some efforts stem from the drive towards
software-defined networking (SDN) and network function virtualization (NFV), and
the fact that the same hardware can provide SDN, NFV, and edge computing
services. This suggests that infrastructure providing edge computing services
may soon become ubiquitous, and may be deployed at greater densities than
content delivery network (CDN) nodes today. 

Satya et al.~\cite{satya2019computing} best describes the modern computing
landscape with edge computing using a tiered model, shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:3tier}. Tiers are separated by distinct yet stable sets of
design constraints. From left to right, this tiered model represents a hierarchy
of increasing physical size, compute power, energy usage, and elasticity. Tier-1
represents today's large-scale and heavily consolidated data-centers. Compute
elasticity and storage permanence are two dominating themes here. Tier-3
represents IoT and mobile devices, which are constrained by their physical size,
weight, and heat dissipation. Sensing is the key functionality of tier-3
devices. For example, today's smartphones are already rich in sensors, including
camera, microphone, accelerometers, gyroscopes and GPS. In addition, an
increasing amount of IoT devices with specific sensing modalities are getting
adopted, e.g. smart speakers, security cameras, and smart thermostats. 

With the large-scale deployment of tier-3 devices, there exists a tension
between the gigantic amount of data collected and generated by them and their
limited capabilities to process these data on-board. For example, most
surveillance cameras are limited in computation to run state-of-art computer
vision algorithms to analyze the videos they capture. To overcome this tension,
a tier-3 device could offload computation over network to tier-1. This
capability was first demonstrated in 1997 by Noble et al.~\cite{Noble1997}, who
used it to implement speech recognition with acceptable performance on a
resource-limited mobile device. In 1999, Flinn et al.~\cite{Flinn1999} extended
this approach to improve battery life.  These concepts were generalized in a
2001 paper that introduced the term {\em cyber foraging} for the amplification
of a mobile device's data or compute capabilities by leveraging nearby
infrastructure~\cite{Satya2001}.  Thanks to these research efforts, computation
offloading is widely used by IoT devices today. For example, when a user asks an
Amazon Echo smart speaker ``Alexa, what is the weather today?'', the user's
audio stream is captured by the smart speaker and transmitted to the cloud for
speech recognition, text understanding, and question answering.

However, offloading computation to the cloud has its own downside. Because of
the consolidation needed to achieve the economy of scale, today's datacenters
are ``far'' from tier-3 devices. The latency, throughput, and cost of wide-area
network (WAN) significantly limit the amount of applications that can benefit
from computation offloading. Even worse, it is the logical distance in the
network that matters rather than the physical distance. Routing decisions in
today's Internet are made locally and are based on business agreements,
resulting in suboptimal solutions. For example, using traceroute, we determine
that a LTE packet originating from a smartphone on the campus of Carnegie Mellon
University (CMU) in Pittsburgh to a nearby server actually traverses to
Philedelphia, a city several hundreds miles away. This is because Philidephia
has the nearest peering point of the particular commercial LTE network in use to
the public Internet. In 2010, Li et al.~\cite{li2010cloudcmp} report that the
average round trip time (RTT) from 260 global vantage points to their optimal
Amazon EC2 instances is 74 ms. In addition to long network delay, the high
network fan-in of datacenters means its aggregation network need to carry
significant amount of traffic. As the number of tier-3 devices is expected to
grow exponentially, these network links face significant challenges to handle
the ever-increasing volume of ingress traffic. 

\begin{figure}
\begin{minipage}[c]{3in}
\begin{center}
\includegraphics[height=1.5in]{FIGS/ping_cdf.pdf}
\caption{CDF of pinging RTTs}
\label{fig:ping-CDF}
\end{center}
\end{minipage}
\begin{minipage}[c]{3.5in}
\begin{center}
    \hspace{0.2in}
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth,clip,trim=91pt 376pt 0 0]{FIGS/Legend-Wifi.pdf}
    \includegraphics[width=3in]{FIGS/Face-LTE.pdf}
\caption{FACE Response Time over LTE}
\label{fig:response-time-lte-face}
\end{center}
\end{minipage}
\end{figure}

To counter these problems, edge computing, shown as the tier-2 in
Figure~\ref{fig:3tier}, is proposed. Cloudlets at tier-2 creates the illusion of
bringing Tier-1 ``closer''. They are featured by their network proximity to
tier-3 devices and their significantly larger compute and storage compared to
tier-3 devices. While tier-3 devices typically run on battery and are optimized
for low energy consumption, saving energy is not a major concern for tier-2 as
they are either plugged into the electric grid or powered by other sources of
energy (e.g. fuels in a vehicle). Cloudlets serve two purposes in the tiered
model. First, they provide infrastructure for compute-intensive and
latency-sensitive applications for tier-3. Wearable cognitive assistance is an
examplar of these applications. Second, by processing data closer to the source
of the content, it reduces the excessive traffic going into tier-1 datacenters.
Figure~\ref{fig:ping-CDF} shows the RTT comparison of PING to the cloud and the
cloudlet over WiFi and LTE. Cloudlet's RTT is on average 80 to 100ms shorter
than its counterpart to the cloud. Figure~\ref{fig:response-time-lte-face} shows
the impact of network latency on an application that recognizes faces. Three
offloading scenarios are considered: offloading to the cloud, offloading to the
cloudlet, and no offloading. The data transmitted are images captured by a
smartphone. As we can see, the limited bandwidth of the cellular network further
worsen the response time when offloading to the cloud. In fact, for this
particular application, even local execution outperforms offloading to the
nearest cloud due to network delay. The optimal computational offload location
is cloudlet, whose median response time is more than 200ms faster than local
execution and about 250 ms faster than the nearest cloud.

The low-latency and high-bandwidth compute infrastructure provided by cloudlets
is an indispensible foundation for latency-sensitive and compute-intensive
wearable cognitive assistance. Cloudlet also poses unique challenges for
scalability as resources are a lot more limited compared to datacenters. How to
scale WCAs to many users using cloudlets is the key question this thesis set out to
investigate. 


\section{Gabriel Platform}
\label{sec: bg-gabriel}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{FIGS/fig-backend-structure-simple-crop.pdf}
\begin{captiontext}
{\rm (Source: Chen et al~\cite{chen2017empirical})}
\end{captiontext}
\caption{\small Gabriel Platform}
\label{fig:gabriel}
\end{figure}

The Gabriel platform~\cite{ha2014towards,chen2017empirical}, shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:gabriel}, is the first application framework for wearable
cognitive assistance. It consists of a front-end running on wearable devices and
a back-end running on cloudlets. The Gabriel front-end performs preprocessing of
sensor data (e.g., compression and encoding), which it then streams over a
wireless network to a cloudlet.  The Gabriel back-end on the cloudlet has a
modular structure. The {\em control module} is the focal point for all
interactions with the wearable device and can be thought as an agent for a
particular client on the cloudlet. A publish-subscribe (PubSub) mechanism
distributes the incoming sensor streams to multiple {\em cognitive modules}
(e.g., task-specific computer vision algorithms) for concurrent processing.
Cognitive module outputs are integrated by a task-specific {\em user guidance
module} that performs higher-level cognitive processing such as inferring task
state, detecting errors, and generating guidance in one or more modalities
(e.g., audio, video, text, etc.). The Gabriel platform automatically discovers
cognitive engines on the local network via a universal plug-and-play (UPnP)
protocol. The platform is designed to run on a small cluster of machines with
each modules capable of being separated or co-located with other modules via
process, container, or virtual machine virtualization. 

The original Gabriel platform was built with a single user in mind, and did not
have mechanisms to share cloudlet resources in a controlled manner.  It did,
however, have a token-based transmission mechanism.  This limited a client to
only a small number of outstanding operations, thereby offering a simple form of
rate adaptation to processing or network bottlenecks.  We have retained this
token mechanism in our system, described in the rest of this thesis. In
addition, we have extended Gabriel with new mechanisms to handle multi-tenancy,
perform resource allocation, and support application-aware adaptation.  We refer
to the two versions of the platform as ``Original Gabriel'' and ``Scalable
Gabriel.''

\section{Example Gabriel Applications}

Many applications have been built on top of the Gabriel platform.
Figure~\ref{fig:bg-apps-table} provides a summary of applications built by Chen
et al~\cite{chen2018application}. These applications run on multiple wearable
devices such as Google Glass, Microsoft HoloLens, Vuzix Glass, and ODG R7. At a
high level, the cloudlet workflows of these applications are similar, and
consist of two major phases. The first phase uses computer vision to extract a
symbolic, idealized representation of the state of the task, accounting for
real-world variations in lighting, viewpoint, etc.  The second phase operates on
the symbolic representation, implements the logic of the task at hand, and
occasionally generates guidance for the user.  In most WCA applications, the
first phase is far more compute intensive than the second phase. While visual
data is the focus of the analysis, other types of sensor data, e.g. audio, are
also used to help infer user state.

Leveraging lessons learned by Chen et al~\cite{chen2018application}, we created
and implemented several real-life WCA applications whose tasks are more complex.
They also pose more challenges to the computer vision processing as the parts
are not designed for machine recognition. In particular, we focused on assembly
tasks. Many assembly tasks, including manufacturing assembly and medical
procedures, are tedious and error-prone. WCAs can help reduce errors, provide
training, and assist human operators by continuously monitoring their actions and
offering feedback. We describe two of these applications below in detail.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.5\linewidth]{FIGS/RibLoc.jpg}
\caption{\small RibLoc Kit}
\label{fig:ribloc}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{FIGS/ribloc-fsm-crop.pdf}
\caption{\small RibLoc Assistant Task State Machine}
\label{fig:ribloc-app}
\end{figure}

\subsection{RibLoc Application}

RibLoc Fracture Plating System~\cite{ribloc}, shown in Figure~\ref{fig:ribloc}
is used by surgeons to fixate broken ribs for fracture repair. They surgery
consists of five major steps: measure ribs thickness, prepare the plate, drill
bone for screw insertion, insert screws, and tighten screws. To train doctors
how to use this kit, Acute Innovations, the manufacturer of RibLoc, currently
send sales personnel to doctors' office, often for extended period of time. To
reduce the cost of training, we develop a WCA for RibLoc that guides a surgeon
to learn RibLoc step-by-step on fake bones. Figure~\ref{fig:ribloc-app} shows
the task steps of the application as a finite state machine (FSM). Conditions of
state transitions are shown above the transition arrows and instructions
given to users are quoted shown in italics.
Most of user
state recognition is achieved by verifying the existence and locations of key
objects. One exception is rib thickness measurement. The application asks the
user to read out some text from the gauge. Automatic speech recognition (ASR) is
used to detect the user's read-out. ASR is used because the text on the gauge
has a low contrast with the background that they are too hard to optical
character recognition (OCR). A demo video of RibLoc WCA is at
\url{https://youtu.be/YRTXUty2P1U}.

\subsection{DiskTray Application}

In collaboration with InWin~\cite{inwin}, a computer hardware manufacturer, we
created a cognitive assistance to train operators how to assemble their disk
tray product. Figure~\ref{fig:disktray} shows the assembled tray, which is used
to host hard drives that go into a server chassis. As all the other WCAs, we do
not modify the original parts. 

We face two challenges when building this application. First, some parts are
tiny. In one step, the application needs to check if a pin is placed correctly
into a slot. Both the slot and the pin are tiny and hard to see. To solve the
problem, we ask the user to bring the parts close to the camera in addition to
zooming the camera and turning on the camera flashlight. Second, there is a
plastic strip that is translucent. Transparent objects are extremely challenging
to detect using 2D RGB cameras, because their appearance depends on the
background and lighting~\cite{lysenkov2013recognition}. Instead of detecting the
placement of the transparent strip by computer vision, we leverage the human
operator to signal to the system when the operation is completed. InWin
showcased this application at 2018 Computex Technology Show~\cite{computex}. A
demo video of the Computex Demo can be viewed
at~\url{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AwWZcL9XGI0}.


\section{Application Latency Bounds}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\begin{tabular}{|l|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
\hline
                      & Pool & Work-out & Ping-pong & Face &
                      \multicolumn{3}{c|}{Assembly Tasks (e.g. RibLoc)} \\
\hline
\Xhline{2\arrayrulewidth}
\hline
    Bound Range (tight-loose) & 95-105 & 300-500 & 150-230 & 370-1000 & \multicolumn{3}{c|}{600-2700} \\
\hline
\end{tabular}
\caption{Application Latency Bounds (in milliseconds)}
\begin{captiontext}
{\rm (Adapted from Chen et al~\cite{chen2017empirical})}
\end{captiontext}
\label{fig:bg-bounds}
\end{figure}

Not only are the accuracy of the instructions important to WCAs, the speed at
which these instructions are given is also important. With the human in the
loop, the response times of WCAs are closely related to the human speed and the
task speed. For example, for assembly tasks, an instruction delivered too late
can cause user annoyance and frustration. For fast-paced games such as PINGPONG,
an instruction delivered after the user has made a move becomes useless. To
systematically quantify task-dependent application latency bounds, Chen et
al.~\cite{chen2017empirical} employed three approaches: identify human speed
through literature review (e.g. the time it takes for a human to recognize a
face), physics-based calculation (e.g. the average speed of a PINGPONG ball
while rallying), and user study (e.g. the maximum delay before a user is
annoyed). Figure~\ref{fig:bg-bounds} presents the summary of their results. Each
application is assigned both a tight and a loose bound from the application
perspective. The tight bound represents an ideal target, below which the user is
insensitive to improvements. Above the loose bound, the user becomes aware of
slowness, and user experience and performance is significantly impacted. Latency
improvements between the two limits may be useful in reducing user fatigue.

These application latency bounds can also be considered as application quality
of service (QoS) metrics. Similar to bitrate and start-up time in video
streaming, these metrics are measurable proxies to user experience. In addition,
they reflect how much a user would suffer when system response delay increases.
In this thesis, we use these bounds to formulate application utility functions
to quantify user experience when an application is forced to lower its fidelity
under contention.


\input{background-apps}