\chapter{Cloudlet Resource Management for Graceful Degradation of Service}
\label{chapter: cloudlet}

In addition to workload reduction at the client as discussed in
Chapter~\ref{chapter: load}, another key aspect of adaptation lies in the
resource management of cloudlet resources. We argue that naive resource
management schemes using statistical multiplexing cannot satisfy the needs of
edge-native applications in oversubscribed edge scenarios. Needed are
intelligent mechanisms that takes account of application degradation behaviors.
In this Chapter, we introduce and evaluate such an adaptation-centric cloudlet
resource management mechanism.

In Original Gabriel which relies on operating system level statistical
multiplexing for resource sharing, an increasing number of clients means less
resources for each client. This results in all clients and all applications
suffering from long response time. For wearable cognitive assistance, long
response time translates into feedbacks too late, which have significantly
decreased value, sometimes even becomes distraction to users. In a traditional
data-center environment, a cloud-native application, would quickly scale-up or
scale-out by acquiring additional resources (e.g. virtual machines). However, at
the edge, since the total amount of hardware resources is limited, acquiring
more resources in face of a flash crowd is not possible. Instead, we make the
observation that applications behave differently when the amount of resources
allocated to them reduces. We can leverage such adaptation behavior to create a
more judicious resource allocation mechanism that prioritizes some applications
based on external policies and maintains their quality of service so that not
all clients suffer.



\input{cloudlet-resource-management-profile}
\input{cloudlet-resource-management-allocation}
\input{cloudlet-resource-management-eval}
\input{cloudlet-resource-management-related}
% \input{cloudlet-resource-management-discussion}